Good morning.
Hi.
It's great to see the room almost
full this hour of the morning.
My name is Mike Ferris,
and I'm really glad to be here
today to talk to you about how
to get the most out of Xcode.
This is going to be our
plan for the morning.
I'm going to talk first about
the Xcode workspace window,
and about how you can work with
Xcode with the way that it's
set up right out of the box.
Then we'll talk about how you
can customize Xcode to suit
your particular working style.
And then finally,
we'll spend some time delving into the
source editor to show you how to get
the most out of this key piece of Xcode.
Let's start with the workspace
window and how Xcode works.
Now we understand that there are a
lot of different ways that people
think about developing software,
and Xcode offers flexibility to allow you
to work the way that you want to work.
But before we start talking
about how to customize Xcode,
I want to spend some time talking about
how Xcode works without customization.
First, we'll review the workspace window.
This is going to be familiar
to a lot of you by now.
I just want to make sure that we're
all using the same terminology.
On the left-hand side
is the navigator area.
This is the starting point for almost all
activities that you'll perform in Xcode.
You choose files or symbols from
your project that you need to edit.
You can search through your
content to find all the
stuff that you want to visit.
You can work through issues that you've
introduced as you've been authoring code,
and you can trace through what your
application is doing as you're debugging.
The majority of the window is
given over to the editor area.
This is where most of the
interesting work goes on in Xcode.
You author your code here,
design interfaces, create data models,
and construct your projects and targets,
all in the editor.
As you can see, the editor area can
host multiple editors.
In this case,
we have an interface builder
editor and a source editor.
The editor is the primary
point of focus for most of your
development activities in Xcode.
And finally,
on the right side of the window,
when you need it, is the utility area.
On the top, we have the inspectors,
which show you detail about whatever is
selected in the editor or the navigator.
And on the bottom is the library,
which offers you access to various kinds
of template content that's available for
you to add to your project or documents.
So these three areas, the navigator,
the editor, and the utilities,
are all used in almost all of
the work that you'll do in Xcode.
All right,
now that we've oriented ourselves,
let's actually talk
about how Xcode works.
Xcode is set up to help you progress
through the activities that you need
to perform as a software developer,
while content gets brought to you.
The workspace adapts to the task at hand,
and through navigation and the
specific actions that you perform,
Xcode knows when you're switching
between the different activities
of software development.
Let me show you what I mean.
I might start browsing
around in my project,
trying to figure out an approach
for a problem I'm trying to solve.
Then maybe I focus in on my
code to do some authoring,
and Xcode's workspace
adapts to this new task.
I might decide to do
a little refactoring,
and again, the workspace adapts.
I go on to do some unit testing.
And then maybe I do some debugging.
And as I move through these activities,
Xcode's workspace is adapting
and bringing me the content
that I need for each one.
Now,
to really show you what this is like,
I'd like to do a demo now.
We're going to use an
application that was developed
by somebody who works on Xcode,
that is an app for bird watchers,
to record the birds that they've seen.
And we'll be modifying this
application to fetch thumbnail
images of the birds from a server,
so that you can see them
before you've found them.
And let's go to demo now.
First, let's take stock of how far I've
gotten with this task already.
I've kind of already gotten started.
Let's just sort of look around
and browse through the project a
bit and see what I've done so far.
Browsing through the project, again,
is a common activity when you're
trying to either familiarize
yourself with a particular code base,
or you're looking for an
approach to solve a problem.
So,
a lot of the time when I'm navigating,
I'm going to start with
the project navigator,
where all the content
of my project is listed.
Let me load up my UITableViewCell
subclass right now.
And you can see that I've already
added a new property to hold an
outlet to the image view I'll
use to display these thumbnails.
Okay.
Now, another common way to navigate
in Xcode is to use OpenQuickly.
I can type in a bit of the file name
of the thing that I want to load,
and OpenQuickly will give me a list.
Now, I've already added a new class to
this project as well that's going
to help me manage the fetching
of these thumbnail images.
So let me load up its header file now.
You can see that the primary API on
this new class is a method that will
start fetching the thumbnail image for
a particular bird in the background,
and then when it's finished,
it's going to invoke a completion block.
Now, of course,
Xcode also knows that interface files
and implementation files come in sets,
and it's really common to
want to move between them,
so we offer another form of
navigation that's based on that.
if I use the jump to
next counterpart command,
Xcode will take me from the header file
to the implementation for this class.
And here we can see that the way that
this class works is it's going to use an
NSOperation queue to manage a bunch of
fetches for all the various birds that
we need to find thumbnail images for.
Now, as I'm working in Xcode,
Xcode is analyzing my project
and the code in my project,
so that it knows a lot about
the APIs that I'm using,
the APIs that I'm defining,
all of this stuff.
Making use of that information is
also another really common way to
want to navigate around your code.
So, for instance,
I can select this method, addOperation,
on the NSOperation queue,
and choose jump to definition if
I want to see more about that.
And it's going to jump me to
the framework header where
NSOperationQueue is defined,
and take me to the declaration
of the addOperation method.
And, of course, I can see all the rest of
the API on NSOperationQueue.
As I'm navigating,
Xcode's editor is capturing
my navigation history.
And so another very common
way to navigate through my
project is to use that history.
So let me do that now to
navigate back to where I was.
All right,
so now we've kind of gotten our bearings.
We've seen how-- familiarize
ourselves with how far we've gotten.
Let's actually change activities to
source code authoring and finish this up.
Now, to do that,
the first thing I'm going to have
to do is add a property to my model
class to hold the thumbnail image
when it comes back from being fetched.
And since I have a mention
of my model class right here,
I'm actually going to use
jump to definition again.
This time,
I'll do it via another gesture,
which is to hold the command key down.
You'll notice that as I hold the command
key down and pass over things in my file,
that Xcode highlights the symbols.
If I click on one of them,
it executes that jump
to definition command.
So I can just command click on anything
to jump right to where it's defined.
To add this property,
I'm going to need to make some changes
to a couple of different files.
So this turns out to be a really
good use for the Assistant Editor,
and I'm going to turn that on now.
You'll notice that as
I turned on the Assistant,
Xcode automatically brought
me the header file for this
class that I was looking at.
Now we're going to learn more about
the Assistant Editor later in the talk,
but for now,
the important thing to remember
is that one great way to use the
Assistant is to have it set up to
just let Xcode try to bring you things
that it thinks you're likely to need,
based on whatever you've chosen
to see in the primary editor.
To add this property,
I'm going to add a couple
of instance variables.
- I'm going to add a getter.
And since this is a little bit tricky,
I can't really use the
automatically generated getter.
Instead, I'm going to have to keep track
of whether I've already started
fetching the thumbnail for this bird.
And if I haven't already
started fetching it,
then we'll go in and actually
use that bird image fetcher
class to start fetching.
And then we'll go in and
actually use that bird image
fetcher class to start fetching.
And when the completion block fires,
when the image has been fetched,
we'll go ahead and save that
thumbnail for this bird.
And then of course, down at the end here,
we need to return the thumbnail image.
Now since the fetching
goes on in the background,
the first time I call this
method on any given bird,
I'm actually going to
get nil returned to me,
because I don't have the image yet.
But then later,
after the fetch is completed,
it'll get assigned into the property,
and from then on,
I'll have access to that thumbnail image.
Now, as I was adding that,
I noticed something that
has been bugging me for,
you know, 30 seconds now,
and it's time to fix it.
I have this method,
initRecordWithDictionary,
and I just noticed that this
method starts with the word init,
but it's a class method.
And that's really sort of not right,
according to Cocoa naming conventions.
Init methods are typically instance
methods that initialize an instance
that's already been created.
This, it turns out,
is a convenience method that
actually creates an instance.
And the naming pattern for that would,
the more appropriate naming pattern,
would be to actually call this method,
to start this method with
the name of the class.
So I'm gonna switch
activities briefly here,
and fix that now while
I'm thinking about it.
And to do that,
I'm just gonna select the symbol,
and hold the correct modifier key,
to get the context menu,
and just choose to rename this.
So we're switching to
refactoring at this point.
Type in the new name.
And then Xcode's going to show
me what it thinks it needs to
do to accomplish this renaming.
So of course,
it's going to change the declaration
of this method and the definition.
And it found the one place in my code
where I'm actually calling this method,
and we'll change that too.
So that all looks good.
We'll go ahead and accept those changes.
And OK, well now I feel much better.
The method is named correctly.
Let's change activities again.
We're going to go on to our
next implementation task.
So we will start authoring code again.
Now in this case,
actually not so much code.
We need to do some interface work.
I'm going to need to make
some space in my interface
to show this thumbnail image.
So I'm going to get
the nib file for the--
and I'm going to use open quickly again.
I know that it's related
to my bird cell class,
that UITableViewCell subclass.
And yeah, actually here it is.
It's this nib file right here.
And I'm going to use open quickly again.
I know that it's related
to my bird cell class,
that UITableViewCell subclass.
And yeah, actually here it is.
It's this nib file right here.
That time I used OpenQuickly
using the command key equivalent,
which is how you would usually use it.
You'll notice that as I loaded
up the interface file,
the Assistant has brought
me some new content again.
It actually decided to
show me my bird cell class,
which happens to be the class
used for the table view cell
that's in this nib file.
In fact, the assistant has discovered
a couple of things that it
thinks I might be interested in.
You can see that from the
little indicator up here.
And so if I want, I can see what else it
thought I might want to see.
And it turns out to be
the root view controller,
which is the file's
owner of this nib file.
And it turns out that actually the
bird cell is what I really want,
I mean, need in a minute.
So we'll leave it there.
So to complete this,
I just need to move some things around
to make room to show this thumbnail.
So I'm going to select a
few of the elements here.
We'll just move them over a bit.
I'm going to move the checkmark
for whether I've seen the
bird or not over to this side.
And then since that's
about the right size,
I'll just duplicate it back over
here to act as the thumbnail.
Since I don't actually want
this thing to come up with a
checkmark in it by default,
we'll open the utilities and clear
out that default image as well.
So it'll start off empty,
and then the idea is that once
the image has been fetched,
we'll see it appear.
All right, let me put away the utilities.
Now, this looks about the
way that I want it to.
I'm not a UI designer.
And so now,
the only thing I have left to do
is to make sure that in my code,
I can set the image into this image view.
And that's why I added that outlet that
we saw earlier to the bird cell class,
so that I can have a pointer
back to this image view.
So I hold the correct modifier,
and I can just drag out a connection,
and connect that right
up to the image view,
the outlet that I added.
OK.
I think I'm done.
So I'm going to change activities again,
and I'm going to start testing.
Now of course, before I started,
while I was working on this earlier,
of course,
the first thing I did was I wrote a new
test case for my unit test to make sure
that this was all going to work properly.
So that's what we're running now.
And that's what failed.
So since the test failed,
Xcode decided that the most likely thing
is that I'd probably want to see Y,
and so it brought me
to the issue navigator.
And I can click on the failure
issue here and get taken to my test
code exactly where the test failed.
Now it turns out that what this
test is doing is it's trying to
make sure that that thumbnail
property on the bird record class is
working the way that we want it to.
Which is that the first time you call it,
it comes back and it says nil,
but then at some time later it's
supposed to get the real thumbnail.
And when the real thumbnail comes in,
I expect that if I'm
observing that thing,
I should be told that it's changed,
because now there's an image there.
But I'm never getting the key
value observing notification
that I'm expecting.
Now, I could, you know,
make you sit here and
watch me debug this,
but instead, let's skip to the end.
It turns out that I made a mistake
when I was implementing that thumbnail
accessor that we added earlier.
So I'm going to use,
jump to definition again, but since,
again,
I have a call to the method right here,
jump directly to that method declaration,
or definition.
And the problem is that key-value
observing can work automatically as long
as you're doing sort of normal stuff.
But here,
we're doing something kind of tricky,
and when that completion block fires,
we're just assigning the new image
directly into our instance variable
in a way that key-value observing
really can't know anything about.
And so it doesn't really know that the
value for that property has changed,
and it won't be sending
out the notifications.
I can help it out.
It's easy to, you know, overcome this.
You can simply tell key-value
observing that you're doing this.
And the way that you do that
is before you make the change,
you tell it that you're
about to make a change.
And after you're done,
you tell it you finished
making the change.
That ought to take care of it,
but let's make sure.
We'll run our test again.
And here they go.
and this time they succeeded.
So I could go on and probably
the next thing that I would do
is I would debug my application,
make sure those thumbnails are showing
up in the UI where I expect them.
After everything's working correctly,
I would transition activities again
and I would check my stuff into SCM,
and then I would go on to whatever
the next task is in my day.
But I think you guys get
the idea of how this works.
So let's go back to slides, please.
So here's a way of thinking
about software development,
one way of thinking about
software development,
that matches the way
Xcode works by default.
Software development
is a complex endeavor,
and you have to perform a lot of
different activities and manage
a ton of different content.
The focus is on moving from
one activity to the next,
As the content that you
need is brought to you.
So this is software
development as a continuous
progression through activities.
Xcode's workspace adapts
to the task at hand,
instead of providing you with a different
place to go for each of these activities.
And through navigation,
Xcode brings the content to you,
rather than sending you off
to find where the content is.
All right,
now the last thing that I want to talk
about before we move on is navigation.
So navigation is really kind
of a key concept in Xcode 4.
We've seen a number of different ways
to navigate through your content,
and we're going to see
more as the talk goes on.
Anytime you ask Xcode to show you
a particular location in a file,
that's navigation.
Now, not all movement within
a file is navigation.
So if you're just scrolling around
or changing the selection or editing,
that's not considered navigation.
But any kind of intentional
action on your part that says,
I want you to take me to this place,
that's navigation.
Navigation is how you get Xcode
to bring you your content,
and navigation is what's
captured as editor history.
The next part of this talk is going
to be all about how to customize
Xcode to suit your workflow.
And a really important aspect
of that is how you can modify
what happens when you navigate.
So to talk more about that,
I'd like to invite Brooke Callahan up to
tell you about how to customize Xcode.
Hi, I'm Brooke, and I'm here to talk to
you about customizing Xcode
to better meet your needs.
I'm going to talk about two things.
First, I'm going to show you how you
can customize Xcode's behaviors
to better fit your workflow.
Do you find yourself hiding and
showing different parts of the UI?
Well,
there's something we can do about that.
Then I'm going to show you how you
can change how navigation works.
Do you prefer to do your
editing in a single tab,
or multiple tabs?
Maybe you prefer to open each of
your documents in a separate window.
Modified navigation can
make this a lot easier.
So what are behaviors?
Behaviors are how Xcode
reacts to high-level events.
You can configure them in
the Behaviors prep pane.
If Xcode ever alerts you in some way,
or reconfigures your window layout,
it's probably because of
one of the settings here.
You can configure
behaviors in several ways.
Behaviors can run alerts,
like telling you when
the build completes,
or they can reconfigure the UI.
They can also create new tabs for you,
or reopen a tab that
you previously closed.
They can even run scripts.
And if there isn't an automatic
behavior for what you want to do,
you can create a new one and
assign it to a keyboard shortcut.
So let's take a look at this.
So here you can see that
I have the default settings.
When a build generates new issues,
Xcode will show me the issues navigator.
When a build succeeds,
Xcode will show me the bezel alert.
So why might I want to change the alerts?
Some operations in Xcode
can take a long time,
like building or a device restore.
If you notice this happening,
and you're spending a lot of time
waiting for Xcode to complete,
you could change these
settings to play a sound,
or say the name of the behavior.
That would free you up
to do something else,
like go back to your
game of Angry Birds while
you're waiting on Xcode.
How many of you wish that
you had a separate window
for building or debugging?
I see a show of hands, please.
Great.
This is really easy to do with behaviors.
If I build right now,
Xcode shows me the issues navigator,
but that's not really what I wanted.
I would have preferred that Xcode
leave what I was working on alone,
and open a new tab or
window for my build.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to change the behavior for
when a build generates new issues,
to show me a tab named Build.
I'm going to do the same
thing for when a build fails.
Now when I build,
I get a tab named Build.
And if I close this and rebuild,
Xcode will recreate it
again just the way it was.
If I want a separate build window,
I can just drag this out,
and the next time I build,
Xcode will recreate it as a new window.
Because Xcode's remembering what window
my tab was in the last time I had it.
And the concept's the
same for other operations,
like debugging.
are using the search navigator.
So that's great.
Now I have a few different tabs
that Xcode's creating for me
automatically for these different
operations that I'm doing.
But now it's always taking me
away from what I was working on.
What I really wish I had was a way to
get back to the work that I was doing.
So this is the tab that I'm
doing most of my work in.
So I'm going to rename this.
I'm going to call this Home.
And now that I've given that a name,
I can add a new behavior
to take me back there.
I'm going to give this
a keyboard shortcut,
and have it show me the Home tab.
While I'm at it,
I'll have this reconfigure
my tab the way I like it.
I'll have it show the Project Navigator,
Show me the standard editor,
and hide the debugger and the utilities.
Now if I build,
I can always press Command + 8
to get me back to my Home tab.
So that's how you can
customize behaviors.
But what about modified navigation?
So what is modified navigation?
By default,
navigation that starts in editor
will happen in that same editor.
Navigation that starts somewhere
else will open in the primary editor.
Modified navigation is how
you can tell Xcode to open
your document somewhere else.
The choices are Option,
for a pre-configured destination,
Option and Shift,
to tell Xcode precisely where
you want that document opened,
or Double-Click for a new tab or window.
So where does modified navigation work?
If you're using DoubleClick,
it works in the navigators.
And that's just about it.
But if you're using
the keyboard modifiers,
Option or Option + Shift,
it works in that when you're
clicking in the navigators,
Anywhere in the jump bar,
command clicking in the source editor,
quick help.
stepping in the debugger
with Open Quickly,
and many of the commands
under the Navigate menu.
So let's take a look at this.
So as you know,
clicking the Navigator will
open the file in the editor.
If I hold down Option and click,
it'll open in the Assistant Editor.
If I click another
file with Option-click,
It will replace the existing
document in the Assistant Editor.
This is because I have the default
setting to use a single Assistant Editor.
But if I prefer to open each of
my documents in their own window,
I would change this to
use a separate window.
Now if I option click,
Xcode will open a new window
with everything collapsed
just for that document.
And if I'm doing something else,
and option click again,
Xcode will find that window
and bring that to the front.
If I'm working with this
file for a little while,
and I change the size of the window,
scroll around a bit,
[Transcript missing]
Using separate splits,
or using separate tabs.
So it's all how you want
to work with your files.
You can also use Option + Shift to
tell Xcode precisely where
you want your document opened.
I can use,
I can tell Xcode to open my document
in any of the existing editors,
to create a new editor in a new split.
[Transcript missing]
My name is Ron Lu Saeng,
and I will be the closing act for this,
our session on maximizing
productivity with Xcode.
So we've seen some of the
stuff we can do out of the box,
some of the behaviors that
Xcode gives you out of the box.
And we've seen customizing Xcode to
work with the way you like to work.
The focus on this last part of the
talk will be on source editing.
So I'll take the next 15 or 20 minutes
just to focus on some of the behaviors,
some of the functionality,
that can really improve the
quality of the time that you
spend with your source code.
Before we get started,
I just want to go over two terms,
just to make sure you and
I are on the same page.
First of these two terms
is standard editor.
So this is how your workspace
window looks when it's set
to use the standard editor.
Your single window just
gets a single editor in it,
one source file visible at a time.
So the first term is standard editor,
the second term will be assistant editor.
You can switch to the Assistant Editor,
and your Workspace window
will look like this.
You'll end up with multiple
smaller editors hosted by
the larger assistant editor.
All right,
with those two terms out of the way,
I just want to jump straight into demo.
So we have our Sketch workspace open.
Taking a look at Sketch with
our navigator on the left,
the editor in the middle,
and the utility area over on the right.
Now, we're talking about maximizing
productivity and the source editor.
And for me,
I really feel much more productive
when I can see as much of my
source code at once as possible,
with as little distraction as possible.
So, I tend to work with the
utility area collapsed,
and actually the
navigator area collapsed.
[Transcript missing]
So that's one way of getting
around without the navigators.
The other way that I tend to get
around my workspace is by using
the jump bar that's up here,
ever present in our editor.
We can jump around to any of
the files within our workspace,
and once we get to a specific file,
we have access, of course,
to all the symbols within that file.
And over on the left
side of the jump bar,
we have our history.
We can go back and forward in history for
all of the navigation that we've done,
jumping around inside of our file.
And you'll notice you can
see the full history just by
holding down on the back button,
the back or forward buttons.
And I don't know how
clear it is back there,
but you can see not
just intra-file history,
so all the places you've
been within this file,
but also cross-file history.
There are times where you just want to
see only the files that I've been in,
the last location in the
files that I've been in.
And you can get that quickly
by just using the command
key when you click and hold.
And then over on the right
side of the jump bar,
can you guys see that clearly?
We have our mini issues navigator,
which lets us see all of the files
in our workspace that have issues.
And then once we jump to that file,
we can see the list of
issues within that file.
It makes it really easy to
navigate all of the issues in your
workspace without using up any
extra space for the navigator area.
So, let's see, that's two, right?
Using open quickly, using the jump bar.
The third option for navigating without
the navigators would be another one.
The third option that we've
seen is jump to definition,
where you can just,
whatever symbol you have selected,
you can jump directly to that.
Or just by using command
click on any symbol.
So with all of these options,
I find I can dedicate as much
space as possible to seeing my
source code without using up the
space for the navigator area.
Now there are times where you still
want or need to use the navigators,
but I find that the navigators
come forward when I want them,
when I actually want them anyway.
So for instance, when I start a find in
workspace operation,
the find navigator comes forward for me.
And once I'm done with it,
I can just put it away.
And likewise,
I have a behavior set up so that
whenever a build generates a new issue,
the issues navigator
comes forward for me.
And when I'm done working on that,
I can just put the navigator area away.
And likewise, if I'm debugging,
and I hit one of my breakpoints,
or I just pause the
debugger for something,
then the debug navigator comes forward.
And otherwise, I just put the navigators
away so it's not in the way.
So we can spend a lot more quality
time with our source code instead
of dealing with the navigators.
And similarly, with the utility area,
I find I don't really use
the utility area unless,
well, for me, unless I'm editing a nib.
And in those cases,
I use one of the behaviors
that Brooke alluded to.
I have a custom behavior for configuring
my current tab just for nib editing,
so that I get just the inspector area
and nothing else along with the editor.
All right.
So now I want to focus on actually
writing code in the source editor.
I'm going to use open quickly here,
just to jump to a file that I know
I want to make some changes in.
I'll use a shortcut up here, control 6,
which will pop the document
item part of the jump bar,
so that I can just start typing the
name of the function I want to get to.
I want to make some
changes to this method,
setColor.
I want to just make sure that this method
only does work when the old value and
the new value are actually different.
So I'll just add a little if block here.
I know that the old value is
stored in a stroke color property.
Now,
notice that I'm getting code completion.
I haven't done anything.
I'm just typing, and as I go,
I get code completion.
And notice that I haven't typed
the open square brace for this
method call that I'm using.
Xcode pretty much knows
that's what I intend to do.
And if I add the closing square brace,
it helpfully inserts the
opening square brace for me.
And this sort of behavior
nests really nicely as well.
Save a little time there.
One other change I'm going to add
here is manual KVO notification.
So everybody's familiar
with key value observing,
key value coding, KVO, KVC.
Yeah, you know me.
All right, so we have our manual
KVO notification set up here.
The indentation is a little funky.
I'll just double-click the curly
brace so that I can go up to the
Editor menu and re-indent this block.
All right,
fix the indentation all at once.
So we have a manual
KVO notification within our setter.
I know that that means I'm going
to need to turn off automatic
KVO notifications for this property.
Now, I know that I need to
implement some method.
It's like auto something.
I can never actually
remember what that method is.
And code completion doesn't
seem to know what it is either.
It's okay.
I'm just going to use open quickly.
I know that method lives
in keyvalueobserving.h.
There we go.
We can jump around here.
Let's just type auto.
There we go.
Okay.
So, we have the method that
we need to implement.
Automatically notifies observers for key.
And while I'm here,
I see that there's a lot of
great documentation right in
the header for this class.
Now, not all classes are this
verbosely commented.
So, a lot of times when I get to methods
that I don't use often or are new to me,
I like to see documentation anyway.
I can use option click here just
to get quick help documentation.
I can also open up the inspector
and use the quick help inspector to
see documentation about the symbol.
Actually, what's really nice about using
Quick Help in the Inspector this
way is that as I mouse around,
you'll notice the content in
the Inspector actually updates,
so that I get all the documentation
for that class without ever
having to jump out to the full
documentation in the Organizer.
Now, if I do want to go to the full
documentation in the Organizer,
I can get to that from
either the Quick Help pop-up,
pop-over, or the Inspector,
or just by option
double-clicking the symbol,
and I go straight to the
documentation in the Organizer.
Now I'm done looking at documentation.
Okay, I see that actually the method
I want to implement is just
one with this naming pattern.
Oh, you know what?
I forgot to show you one other thing.
Neat thing about quick
help in the inspector,
It doesn't only work
in your source files,
it also works in your nibs,
and actually also works for
build settings in your projects.
So you can see,
quick help shows you documentation
for build settings that you might
not have known actually... Oh,
cool.
Yes.
Love it.
And I want to highlight this one.
We didn't get here totally by accident.
I do want to highlight
this build setting,
combining high-resolution artwork.
If everybody's interested in high DPI,
right?
High-resolution artwork in your apps.
There's actually a session
immediately after ours in,
I think it's Russian Hill?
Mission Hill?
Mission?
On Aqua and high-resolution,
where they're going to talk about
exactly what this build setting does.
All right.
Enough of a side trip there.
Okay, we're implementing this method,
key value observing, auto KVO turn off,
all right.
We know we need to implement this method,
automatically notifies observers of key,
Now I could just take this text, copy it,
go back to our sktline.m, paste it,
start typing,
fill in all the details of the method,
and the next time we run
into having to do this,
we would just do all of that again.
Which seems incredibly manual.
Doesn't seem to improve
our productivity at all.
What I'd really like is for code
completion to know about this pattern.
And we can teach code completion
about patterns like this by taking a
look at our code snippet library here
in the bottom of the utility area.
We can add a new code snippet just by
dragging this text out of our editor
and into the code snippet library.
Down at the bottom here now,
we get our own code snippet.
Clicking it once, we get a little editor,
where we can give it a title, a summary,
a
We can decide that this code
snippet is valid for iOS or Mac OS.
KVO happens to be useful on both.
We can define that this really only makes
sense for Objective-C methods or classes.
We can fill in
- The implementation of
the method however we like,
including putting in
code completion tokens.
You can see another token here by,
I add another token here
by adding a less than,
a pound, any string I want,
another pound, and a greater than.
We can also specify that when
code completion is trying to
complete to this code snippet,
that it should really only do that when
we're typing into a class implementation.
This wouldn't really make
sense to add to a header file,
for instance.
And we can give our own shortcut
to this code completion.
Okay, you can see the code completion
tokens got bubble-ized,
and hit done.
You can head back to our sktline.m.
Now we could drag this code
snippet out of the library and
into our editor at this point,
or we could hide the utility
area and just complete the
completion that we started.
And there we taught code
completion about this new pattern.
You can fill in all the details,
and we're done.
Actually, one last thing.
One last thing I want to
change in this bit of code.
I actually want to rename
this local variable.
- It's not exactly
descriptive enough for me.
So I could just use copy and paste,
find and replace to do that.
But that's again more manual work.
And imagine if I had some terrible
coworkers that just left it,
the local variable is C.
Find and replace for that
wouldn't be very helpful either.
But there is a way of
automating this a little.
So I don't know if you can tell
that once I've selected this string,
other uses of that
symbol get highlighted,
get highlighted in my editor.
This behavior is actually
controlled by a preference up
here in our text editing prefs.
Highlight instances of selected symbol.
If you've ever wondered what that does,
well, now you know.
Once I've selected this and Xcode shows
me all of the other uses of that symbol,
I can trigger an edit
all in scope operation,
either by the little
triangle that shows up here,
the little pop-down that shows up here,
or by going up to the editor menu
and triggering edit all in scope.
Now I can rename all uses of
that in the enclosing scope.
This is also a great way for you
to rename IVARs in large files,
for instance.
Okay, so now I'm done talking about stuff
that's useful in the standard editor.
Actually,
all this is useful in the standard
editor and the assistant editor,
but now I'm going to focus just
on some of the neat features
of the assistant editor.
Now, there are multiple ways to switch
to using the assistant editor.
We can use the toggle
up here in the toolbar,
or we could just, we could use this.
Use the Navigate menu and
use Open in Assistant Editor.
So you can see what I have
now is two independent views
on the same source file.
So I can manually navigate around
on either side using the jump bars,
open quickly,
jump to definition on either side,
manually managing the content
of either side of these editors.
I can even view documents that aren't
in my workspace simply by dragging
a file onto either of the jump bars.
Right, so, now that's another one
of these manual things.
We could instead switch the assistant
to always keep the content that it shows
in our subsidiary editor on the right.
I always get that confused.
Keep that content synced with what's
shown in our primary editor on the left.
And there are multiple
categories of relatedness.
So by default, for source code,
you can reset the
Assistant Editor to switch to
its default relatedness category,
which is counterparts.
So that for any header file
you see in your primary editor,
you'll automatically get its
companion counterpart.m file
in your subsidiary editor.
And now I said that there are
multiple categories of relatedness.
We have counterparts, superclasses,
you can see all of your subclasses,
siblings.
We even put a categories category
in your assistant editor's editor.
Dog.
And new in Xcode 4.1,
we also have support for seeing the
preprocessed or assembly representations
of the file in your primary editor.
So you can quickly get to the
preprocessor and assembly results
for any file in your workspace.
Oh, one of the other ones that we added.
So we've seen we have preprocessor
assembly as two of the three
new categories that we have
for the Assistant Editor.
We also added the disassembly category.
So that now as you're
stepping through debugging,
you can actually see the disassembly
of the frame that you're in.
All right.
And actually, that concludes our demo.
I just want to recap what
we've gone over so far.
We've seen some of the great
behavior and functionality that
Xcode provides you out of the box.
Kind of an idea of how Xcode
tries to help you go from
one activity to the next.
And then we've seen how
you can customize Xcode,
how it behaves and how it looks,
to better suit how you like to work.
And then we just went through some of the
functionality in the source code editor,
and how Xcode deals with
navigation within editors,
that can really improve the
quality of the time that you
spend with your source code.
Now, if you have any other questions,
I'd like to defer to Michael Jurvets,
our DevTools evangelist.
Check out the documentation.
There's lots of great documentation
about using Xcode up online.
Check out the developer forums.
We're all trying to answer questions.
on the dev forums as well.
There are a bunch of related sessions,
a couple that you might
have missed on IB,
one that's being repeated
soon on storyboarding,
some new features in Interface Builder.
Lots of great sessions coming up,
including the one that
I mentioned about Russian Hill,
fullscreen, and Aqua.
Thank you for coming.
Have a great rest of the week.